Observation







Interview Question:

--------------------------
Attitudinal factors:
--------------------------
ecological world view (self, human, Ecosphere):

	1). how do you think of human enviroment relationship. (abstract norms)

	2). how do you view your relationship with environment. (abstract norms)

	3). how do you value environment?

AC (awareness of consequence):

	1). How do you think driving a car will affects the environment and others? 

AR (ascription of responsibility):
	1). in your opinion, what impact would it make if you use train as a means of 	    transport instead of car.

personal norms:
	1). do you feel some responsibility to reduce the impact of using car on 		    envrionment?
	2). would you take any action to minimise the impact of using car?

--------------------------
Contextual factors & personal capabilities:
--------------------------

what are the benefits of using train as a means of transport?

how do you think of travelling by car and train respectively?

social norm and expectation:
	1). what are your family members' or close friends' expectation in regards to use 	    train as a means of transport.

convenience & confort ?:
	1). what are the barriers to you to use train as a means of transport.

	2). is there anything may motivate you to use train as a means of transport.

	f). how do you rate these barriers and motivation in terms of the importance to 	    you.
	f).

financial cost:

	1). how do you think of the financial cost of using car and train as a means of 	    transport respectively.
	f). how does the financial cost affect you choice of transport? and the importance 	    of financial cost

----------------------------------------
----------------------------------------
----------------------------------------

 Interviewer: How did you travel to work today?

 Interviewee: Well normally I ride my bike but today I drove.

 Interviewer:  Why did you choose to drive to work today?

 Interviewee:  I’m taking my son to the optometrist. It’s a 20 min walk home from there and I wanted to spare him the trouble of that.  [He has given me one main reason here:  saving his son trouble, so I follow that up with a ‘why’ question]

 Interviewer:  Why did you want to spare your son trouble?

 Interviewee:  Because after school he is tired, and I wanted to be kind to him. [The main reason here seem to be kindness to son, so I follow that up]

 Interviewer:  Why is it important to be kind to him? 

 Interviewee:  He is only in year 7, he gets tired first week back at school.  It’s important to be kind to him.  [At this point, I’ve got essentially the same answer as I got to my previous question – ‘being kind to my child’ - , so I figure I have got to a base reason.  I change my tack to see what else I can find out]

 Interviewer:  Normally you ride your bike to work every day.  Why is that? 

 Interviewee:  Its fun, quick, I get exercise and it has a low environment impact [He has given me a lot of reasons here.  I have to follow up just one of these for the moment.  Which one?  I decide to look at environmental impact, and will follow others up later]

 Interviewer:  Why important to you to have low environmental impact?

 Interviewee:  Because I am concerned about greenhouse effect and want to do my bit for reducing our carbon output and set an example to others.  [Again, there are a couple of ideas here (reducing carbon output and setting an example for others.  I can only follow up one initially.  I choose reducing carbon output.]

 Interviewer:  Why is it important to you to help reduce carbon output?

 Interviewee:  Because I care about the world and want to make sure our children have a reasonable world to live in.

 Interviewer:  Why do you want to make sure your children have a reasonable world to live in?

 Interviewee:  Isn’t it obvious?  Past generations have had wealth….  You want your children to have a better place to live in.  [I notice the answer is pretty much the same as the previous one – a good world for our children.  At this point I refer back to my notes and see another line of questioning to follow up: getting exercise]

 Interviewer: You said earlier that you ride your bike to get exercise.  Why is it important to you to get exercise?..... [I’ll keep following different lines of inquiry until we have exhausted the topic]
